EDU-17950 - Nova opção pra escolher versão do Node.js no WebOps (#2607)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/release-notes/2026-04-14-faststore-webops-choose-your-storefront-build-nodejs-version.md

---
title: "FastStore WebOps: Project-level Node.js version selector"

> slug: "2026-04-14-faststore-webops-project-level-nodejs-version-selector"

Author: ```suggestion
title: "FastStore WebOps: Choose your storefront build Node.js version"
slug: "2026-04-14-faststore-webops-choose-your-storefront-build-nodejs-version"
```

---
title: "FastStore WebOps: Choose your storefront build Node.js version"
slug: "2026-04-14-faststore-webops-choose-your-storefront-build-nodejs-version"
type: "added"
createdAt: "2026-04-14T12:00:00.000Z"
excerpt: "FastStore WebOps now lets you choose the Node.js version used for storefront builds."
tags:
  - FastStore
  - WebOps
---

> [FastStore WebOps](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/1-onboarding-dashboard) now includes the **Node.js version** section, so you can control which Node.js runtime is used in your FastStore project builds and ensure compatibility with **FastStore v4**, as this version is based on Next.js v16 and requires a more recent Node.js runtime.

Reviewer: - Atualizar link para não precisar de redirect
- Quebrar frase longa em menores
- Substituir voz passiva
- Adicionar referências
  - Nota: Não encontrei uma referência melhor sobre FastStore v4 (guia dedicado ou RN). Na [página das versões](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/getting-started-faststore-versions-and-support-levels) também não cita a v4.
```suggestion
[FastStore WebOps](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/webops-dashboard) now includes the **Node.js version** section. Use it to control which Node.js runtime to use in your FastStore project builds, and ensure compatibility with [**FastStore v4**](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/getting-started-upgrading-faststore-to-v4). This version is based on [Next.js v16](https://nextjs.org/blog/next-16) and requires a more recent Node.js runtime.
```

![node-webops](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/vtexdocs/dev-portal-content@EDU-17950/images/node-webops.png)

## What has changed?

Previously, WebOps used a predefined Node.js version managed by the platform, and you couldn't explicitly choose which Node.js version your FastStore project should use.

Now, WebOps provides a Node.js version setting at the project level. In this setting:

> * New FastStore projects created in WebOps are configured to use Node.js v24 by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* New FastStore projects created in WebOps are configured to use [Node.js v24](https://nodejs.org/en/blog/release/v24.0.0) by default.
```

> * Existing projects continue to use their current Node.js version (v22 or v20), and you can update them when you're ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Existing projects continue to use their current Node.js version ([v22](https://nodejs.org/en/blog/release/v22.0.0) or [v20](https://nodejs.org/en/blog/release/v20.0.0)), and you can update them when you're ready.
```

* When you update a storefront to FastStore (Next.js 16), you can switch the WebOps project to Node.js v24 directly in the WebOps project settings, avoiding build and runtime incompatibility issues.

For more details about this feature, see the Settings section in the guide [FastStore WebOps - Dashboard](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/1-onboarding-dashboard).

## Why did we make this change?

By adding a Node.js version selector in WebOps, we give you more control over your build environment and make the [**FastStore v4** migration](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/getting-started-upgrading-faststore-to-v4) path clearer and safer.

## What needs to be done?

**Check the Node.js version of existing projects**

1. In the VTEX Admin, go to **Storefront > FastStore WebOps** and navigate to the **Settings** tab.
2. In the **Node.js version** section, confirm which version your project is using (`v20` or `v22`).

> ℹ️ Existing projects continue using their current Node.js version until you update it.

**Update the Node.js version when upgrading to FastStore v4**

> FastStore v4 requires Node.js v24 in WebOps. If you're upgrading from an earlier FastStore major, follow the instructions in the guide [Upgrading FastStore to v4](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/getting-started-upgrading-faststore-to-v4), including the WebOps steps after you update your repository and configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FastStore v4 requires Node.js v24 in WebOps. If you're upgrading from an earlier [FastStore major](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/getting-started-faststore-versions-and-support-levels), follow the instructions in the guide [Upgrading FastStore to v4](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/getting-started-upgrading-faststore-to-v4), including the WebOps steps after you update your repository and configuration.
```
